The world of platforms is much
wider than you think and what I
thought and the point is that there
are many different types
of platforms.
When we think of platforms, in
addition, we always put the same
examples, because we put in
the typical or most well-known
marketplaces, such as Airbnb or
how it can be Amazon or eBay
or so, but there are really
many different business models
that share or that meet the criteria
of being a platform, that if
you remember mainly is that there
are two customer segments that
generate value to each other,
that a network effect is
produced, because as there
are more users, the value
for all is growing and there
are barriers to entry as a result.
Well, there are many platform classifications
and we can classify the platforms
according to different criteria,
because if they are between individuals,
with individuals and companies,
or the type of services that
are or products that are exchanging
or the sector in which
they are present, well, infinity,
but I think that it
does not contribute
too much.
What we have to do is start
to be more analytical and as we
go knowing new platforms, concrete
cases of specific companies,
well, because we go analyzing
how they connect their users,
how they create value, how they
make money, etc., and what
we will do today is, we will
see in four blocks, marketplaces,
classified, social
networks, content platforms,
well, we will see several examples
that we all know and what
we will do we will analyze
the examples, more
than the groups.
Then, we start with the marketplace,
a marketplace is a platform that
connects supply and demand, because
we think of Amazon, for example,
products, products are sold
through Amazon, in Airbnb
services are exchanged, accommodation
services, in booking,
hotels hosting services, in Kickstart
are very different services,
by the way, if you do
not know Kickstart I
recommend you enter because
it is very interesting.
Well, the question is that, the
particular is that it connects
supply and demand for products and
services but that can be very diverse,
right?
Jovan Talent, for example,
is temporary work.
As we were saying, supply and demand,
products and services diverse,
between individuals and companies,
because it can be C2C, B2B, B2C,
well, of everything and something
to consider is that in these
we have seen, we are already
doing some analysis, all transactions,
the operations are generated
within the application or within
the platform, the website,
right?
Inside, that is, you pay inside, you
on booking, let's say you book and
pay at that time.
In Jovan Talent too, then
hire and pay.
Airbnb and so on.
This is an advantage for the
platform because it allows you
to charge per transaction,
a percentage of the volume traded
is taken, right?
Another issue to bear in mind, which
is not so obvious, is that in these
marketplaces, the offer sets the price.
That is, if you sell on Amazon,
you put your products at the
price you want.
This is not the case
on other autotype platforms,
as we will see later.
And now we'll look at a similar
model, but that has some differences
that are the classified ones.
Let us give examples, which is the
best way to understand.
Idealist is an immovable
portal that connects the supply
and demand of housing, right?
Infojobs is equal to or Monster in
the United States, supply and demand,
but in this case employment.
So what is the main difference
from the marketplaces
we've seen earlier?
In this case, transactions
are generated outside.
In other words, a home is not bought by an
idealist.
You connect supply and demand,
but then the operation closes
out, right?
In infojobs the same.
So, this is what makes these
companies have to look for formulas
to monetize their different.
They can't charge per transaction,
as we've seen before.
That I think would be to charge for
transactions the money, for example.
Because idealist what happens is
that if you go up an idealist
house you do not have to pay,
but if you go up more, if you
go up several, yes, because you
consider you are a professional,
an immovable agency, then
the professionals do pay within
idealist.
It could be considered a freemium
service, because you have free
services, but the other values
you have to pay.
And also idealist, like
so many others, because there
is advertising inside the page,
so it wins its audience.
Vivo is a portal of supply and
demand of second-hand products,
because very similar too, because
if you are a professional you
have to pay and also use,
monetize all traffic with ads.
Wallapop is very similar.
What happens is that Wallapop offers
a service to the user, a
freemium service.
You can pay to highlight your ads.
Well, it's a particularity, but
let's, that in the end if you
realize, advertising formulas are
quite common or quite common
in all of the ones we've seen.
If you can't charge on transactions
you have to charge in another way,
such as offering premium services
or monetizing it via advertising,
for example.
We go to platforms that have
a very different function and
are sometimes called marketplaces,
but they are not.
It is the platform on demand.
And look, so that you understand,
Uber, Cabify or for example or platforms
of this type that offer
you home cleaning services or
laundry and laundry, for example.
Well, the important thing here is
that the app or platform offers
you an end-to-end service, offers
you a full service.
All services are provided in the
Uber or Cabify environment.
You ask for the car, the driver
comes, etc. and even the marketplace
where the offer freely
sets it.
In this case, the application is determined.
And one topic that is a little more
complex to understand, but that is important,
is how it creates value.
How does a marketplace create value?
Well, then it creates value with the
network effect, which as there is more
supply and more demand, because it
creates more value for both, right?
If you are a buyer, what you want
is to create a lot of
sellers, right?
Not that there is variation.
In the case of one of the
on demand platforms, such as
Cabify, the value is availability.
The value is not so much who the
sellers are, right?
But if there is availability in
the service you are consuming, you
ask for a car and arrive quickly.
It doesn't matter who the other person
is, right?
It's all under the water of Cabify.
Well, and in this case also on demand
platforms, obviously, as it is an
end to end service, charge per
transaction because you pay
within the application.
How do social networks work?
They are also platforms.
Social networks, as you know, well,
because they have millions and millions
of users, they need a lot of critical
mass and what they bring is the
value of being able to connect
with other people.
How do they earn money?
These are evolving,
right?
But they currently make money
because they are important
advertising platforms, of the most
powerful in the world, Facebook.
Facebook Ads Generate Billions
of Dollars, Well?
LinkedIn also offers premium
services.
Also, some social networks offer
you the possibility, then, to
pay and benefit from services
of higher added value, right?
LinkedIn has a lot
of premium services.
There are other platforms, which
there are people who also call them
social networks, but they are
not, that are content-centered, like
YouTube, for example, or like TripAdvisor.
On TripAdvisor, content is the
millions of ratings that you've
rolled, that people's up,
right?
So what happens on a content
platform compared to
a social network?
That in a social network people
interact with each other, between
users and on a content platform
you interact with the content
that others have created.
Do not interact directly with
other people.
You can do it, but it's not the
main function, right?
So, some upload videos to
YouTube, for example, and others
consume them.
So here the value is, it is generated,
the network effect that is generated
is due to the huge volume of content,
to the millions and millions
and millions of videos that are
inside, right?
How do they earn money?
Well, they make money because
they are also a advertising
platform, YouTube, for example,
and in some cases, they also
offer premium services.
YouTube, if you want to upload
a certain number of videos,
well, you can, then, you can pay
an additional fee, an additional
subscription.
Well, as you have seen, and as I advanced
you at the beginning of the class,
the world of platforms is
huge, there are very many
types of platforms, and in addition
it is that if we do a categorization,
yet, within each group, the possibilities,
or the, there are many,
a lot of diversity, right?
I think what we should do from
now on is always that you use an application,
or that you are on a web page, or
you start to ask yourself daily,
when you interact with the company,
how you make money, what is your
business model, etc., because
it is a continuous learning,
very enriching, that will help
you understand many things,
will help you understand companies
that we all use on a daily
basis and that many times,
and that until now you
probably have not asked
you how it works.